OK, welcome back.
So we talked about, um.
Uh, two of these instruction files.
And so I'm gonna talk about the other two
as well,
and then we'll generate some instruction,
some instruction files from that.
So uh, going back to.
Our um.
Oh, let that report the other one.
Many repos.
All right, so we talked about these two.
What I wanted to show was that in.
That the instruction file for AI assisted
output is specifying that we want to
create a a log file or a log of all of
our.
Of our actions with with with GitHub.
So we talked about the generated front
matter and it talks about this is kind of
a tricky subject or tricky issue with
this process is I wanted to record the
model that was used in the prompt and
that's not actually available.
from the model itself.
So I'm going to talk about the copilot
instructions.
I'll get a little bit into that.
So here we get into the chat logging of
the model.
And let me open this so we can see the
whole thing.
Uh.
So we want to make sure that we have a
chat transcript and put this into our AI
logs folder.
We don't want to override any existing
conversation files,
so we have a base folder.
We have an AI logs that's in a year,
month and date format with a chat ID,
which is basically kind of the name of
the conversation itself. It's.
And so you have you end up with a a a
conversation, an MD file, a summary file,
and then potentially an artifacts file as
well and.
The the contents of the the the file
should be the chat ID, when it started,
the entire transcript and some the AI log
and the scaffold the AI logs structure
and when it's first executed.
And then here we talk about what goes
into the log.
And what the exchange would look like.
And what the summary file should look
like.
And a secondary work key decisions.
Decision titles.
So it's a fairly comprehensive log of the.
Here's an example of what the summary log
might look like.
And then here at the end,
there's a quality check to verify that
the that when when a artifact is
generated that all of these things are
actually in effect.
And then there is a a a chat
initialization for the chat like
lifecycle that basically kicks off the
whole process and a file generation
workflow, some error handling.
Uh,
some integration points into VS Studio.
How to how to create the chat ID?
The enforcement that would go into CI to
to make sure that you don't check in a
file that doesn't have this and then some
remediation if you are going to apply
this to existing files.
So if we look at the project there is
here a log files from work that we did.
That I did in this in this project
earlier.
This is in the AI assisted development
project.
You can here is the validate improve
instruction section.
Here's the conversation ID log.
The date the model that was used and this
model, since this was retrofitted,
the survival was created.
Actually this chat session was initiated
before.
It's using a default model which is not
the actual correct model.
And that's that's a a a problem.
It actually may cause me to to to remove
this feature because it's not as reliable
as I'd like it to be. Here's the actual.
Exchange.
Here's the text that I I I executed,
so I'm asking it to evaluate and approve
the instruction file. Run this,
run this particular prompt and this was
the gist of the output.
Here I am telling it to run face one of a
branch creation and setup exercise and
prompt.
Here's prompt 3 where I'm actually asking
it to.
Perform that the direct validation and
then chat for I'm getting a result pack
that's telling that that is complete.
Here's a mistake.
And then it completed some fixes and
reported back.
So this is the the idea of the.
Of the conversation log and here is an
example of what a summary file would look
like.
Notice that this file has six steps that
it wanted to execute,
which was option C here and then we have.
Two other steps that that could be
executed and completed,
which is regenerate the instruction files
and validate the improvements and the
idea is that I could then add this file
into my chat.
Like summary dot MD and then I can then
tell it to go ahead and resume the
process at that point and it will pick up
with the option 5 and and continue to
execute that prompt.
So so the so this gives us I think 2 main
2 main values and one is the audit trail
and logging and the 2nd is this ability
to resume and and the the resume feature
is particularly important because as you
continue to work in the.
The context continues to grow until the
point that you've exceeded the window and
now you start to forget things.
So this allows you to go and start a new
chat, bring in the summary file and.
And then go ahead and resume it from that
point and you get a a clear context at
that at that stage.
Any any comments or questions on this so
far?
That's correct.
That's correct. That's correct, yes.
Zoom from this file.
Well, well, actually, no,
I'm not sure about that because you're
resuming it from the the session file.
It has an ID,
so it may it may be able to actually pick
up where it lists off. To be honest,
I I haven't.
I even tested that resume feature except
for a couple of times and so I'm still
experimenting with it.
Yeah.
John,
could you elaborate on the syntax of of
this of the instruction file? What?
What are the rules or where they're
coming from?
Is it textual or if I would like to start
It's.
writing one from scratch as opposed to
modifying your?
Your examples. How would I go about it?
So my suggestion would be that.
That we would create an.
What I've done is I create an instruction
file for creating instruction files.
It applies to only files that have
instructions dot MD at the end of them
and then.
Mhm.
It then it builds the structure for me
and it and defines it.
There is no really required structure.
It's all free text.
It can be whatever you that you want to
put in it, so it can be very simple.
Or it can be, you know,
as elaborate as some of these are.
This is what I used this instruction file
to create.
It's intended to create a MARP slides,
and MARP slides are a markdown version
that is.
Useful for creating slides and I like to
use it because it allows me to actually
apply AI to the slide generation process
and do a lot of interesting things like
add speaker notes automatically and
generate slides on the fly.
But anyway,
this is just as an example of what the
what it looks like and so here you can
see what the required front matter would
be that it's asking to get the top of the
slide file.
It's what the what a slide skeleton looks
like.
Uh.
O Here's an example slide.
Some authoring rules checklists.
Some copilot specific guidance.
These are all useful.
All things are coming from the.
The instruction file.
OK. Thank you.
So yeah,
so you can do that really very easily if
we go back to our.
Our our test folder. Where?
Where did that go?
I think that's this guy here we can say
and this is a a a a really useful
technique because we have an empty
project that does not have any
instruction files in it.
So we we could actually say.
Create instruction files.
For this project.
And it will actually go through and look
at the the project.
It'll evaluate the the the technology and
the.
The contents of the project and and
generate instruction files for that.
And which I think interesting about these
instruction files to create is that
they're not actually targeted to the
actual implementation,
it's really targeted towards the
technology that it's.
That you're using,
so it's possible that the code that you
have.
In your in your project at the time will
not comply with the instruction files
that it creates.
So let's see what it's done so far.
Insistent on instructions.
This is a providing instructions.
For the assistance.
And so these are basically looking at
since we've been doing a lot of actually
no, I've been better if I you're on text.
Let me undo this and continue because we
were doing all this conversation about.
About buffering and and managing the the
the the the prompt buffer.
Uh, instead of saying just that,
we'll say that for the technology.
And the idea here is that we're looking
for guidance on how we should actually
write code.
Other ways you can other ways you can
structure this prompt.
You could say I want to create
instruction file for.
C# looks at a so far as identified C#,
the.net SDK, WPF and end unit.
And so now we have a instruction file for
C# and notice that it has an apply to
clause that says this instruction file
only applies to C# files,
so this will help keep the context from
bloating.
By not including it,
if it's evaluating something that's not
C# code, then it has a.net instructions,
any unit instructions.
And in WPF instructions.
And if we were to look at, let's say,
just the C# instructions,
let's take a closer look at this.
And so it's providing concise actual
guidance on editing C# source codes in
this repository. It wants to follow the.
net naming conventions,
keep methods small and focused,
use expression bodied members,
prefer immutable code, immutable data.
Avoid region blocks unless grouping is
necessary for very large files.
File names and that's primary public type
names and shared utilities,
formatting and styling.
I don't like 4 spaces, I would prefer 2.
Error handling.
Validation exceptions to specific
exceptions types.
New public behavior must include unit
tests in the calculator dot test project
and keep tests isolated and deterministic.
Avoid flaky timing behavior.
And then it makes a reference to the.
net naming guidelines,
which is an external file that it's
actually going to ask it to fetch and use
for naming things.
So any questions on this?
So in my mind, it's happy.
I I feel like I should ask a question.
Did this does?
Does everybody understand what what to do
with these instruction files?
Because I'm a little bit lost so.
Well, well,
we that's because we really haven't
applied them.
So let's which we'll do that next, right.
Oh, OK, so.
You just created them.
And the idea here is this is like a like
a when you're starting with a new project,
this is in my mind one of the first
things that you want to do.
If you're working with existing code and
you want to start to use AI to help you
write that code,
the first thing you want to do, I think,
is to create these instruction files
because they tell the AI what the
expectations are for when it generates
code and that's gives us the control that
we need.
To produce the output that we expect,
right?
So it keeps us focused and keeps it in
target.
OK,
so so the file that you have on the
screen,
are those the instructions for the AI or
are these the instructions AI gave to the
people?
Yes.
No, these are the instructions for the AI.
It's AC sharp instruction file and it's
applying only to CI sharp file.
So it is says when you generate A or you
examine AC sharp file.
You you should be looking at these
instructions as to guide you with that
OK,
so now if I if I give the AI this file as
evaluation.
a context and then I say OK,
generate AC sharp class for me,
then it's gonna read all this and respect
the rules and it's gonna generate the
Yep.
Yep, Yep.
beautiful class for me.
That's that's the result.
Yes, that's the that's the idea.
It it will, it will,
OK.
it will refuse to do things that violate
these these instructions.
If you ask it to do,
if you ask it to do something that
OK. Thanks.
violates its instructions,
it will come back with a response that
says.
I'm not.
I'm not supposed to do this because of
these instructions, right?
So this becomes like hard and fast rules
that you're giving to AI.
OK,
so then the other area of confusion for
me is between, you know,
the free text and going to the other one
that looks like a language that I don't
know.
Like when we looked at the copilot
instructions dot MD, there are a lot of.
Oh.
Details in there that I don't just get by
looking at them.
So is is this something we are going to
dive into deeper again?
Sure.
Or I I just don't want to assume that,
you know,
everybody got it and I'm the only one
missing the point here.
Sure.
Oh,
that's it's that's it's great for you
bringing that up.
So move this into new window.
Another nice thing about the instruction
files is that you can they're marked down,
so you can actually present them.
Um, OK.
So.
So this is free text as well.
There's nothing I I think.
OK,
so all the cryptic stuff I'm looking at,
it's only markdown.
There is no other language embedded
No, no, no, no.
within the markdown. No instructions,
nothing. It's free text. OK,
that's the part I was missing. Thanks.
Right.
And and this instruction file can
Oh.
reference other instruction file that may
even do that towards the end.
Naming conventions for files,
prompt file structure,
common mistakes to avoid.
The other another cool thing about this
is you could generate instruction files
and then do all the coding by hand and
then it will and then you can compare.
The code that you wrote against the
instruction files to make sure that
you're complying with them,
and you suggested that we look at ways of
incorporating that into the CICD process.
But I would say that a good place to
apply this would be actually.
When you try to create a PR so that if
you create a PR and it doesn't comply
with these instructions,
then add comments to the PR that
recommend what changes you need to make
to go to the compliance.
Now now I would I would love to see an
example of that being done.
Yeah, look what? Yeah.
How do I how do I create a PR that
enforces all these rules?
Right.
Let's let's take a stab at that maybe
this afternoon.
So you get a sense of that because I did
some experimenting while you guys were in
the call and and I made some good
progress with that.
So I think it's something that we can do.
It wasn't exactly how I thought it.
OK. Thanks.
It wasn't exactly how I thought it would
work,
But.
but I think it's going to be something
that we can take advantage of.
And I can then see that you would have a
whole series of these kinds of
instruction files that you want to do
some comparisons against in a PR and then
add comments that need to be addressed
before you can actually approve that PR.
OK.
All right, so all right. So yeah,
here was the references I was talking
about here.
It's referencing AI Providence.
This is my personal instruction file,
right?
So if I go into back to the main window
and say.
This is kind of interesting.
Show me the instruction.
That are in.
And it should identify these four files
as well as anything else that's I've
referenced.
In scope.
And how, how,
how exactly did you add them to the scope?
Is it just the fact that it sits in the
repo or you actually attached them all?
If you put them in the GitHub
instructions folder or this is where I
put them or anywhere in the under dot
GitHub and they have an instructions dot
MD then that will be they'll be included
in your scope.
And and is that some regex that picks
them up or is this like some industry
standard?
No,
I'd say it's kind of a GitHub copilot
OK.
thing.
So here you can see it's looking for star
dot instructions dot pro looking at
different files here and so it's saying
is it here's the here's that where's the
OK, that makes sense.
one that I was looking for my personal
one.
So here it's found all of those.
And don't see the.
Other instruction bot on the list.
The other thing I know I've noticed this
popped up recently in that you can
whenever it's actually multiple steps,
it'll put a to do's thing up here and I
think there's a a tool that does this in
our tool section. Oh look,
I've exceeded by 128.
And that is this.
Oh.
Run task to do is right here.
And that allows that feature to come into
play and it'll like it allows you to keep
track.
But I was looking for my personal
instruction file and it doesn't seem to
be in this list.
Sees the other ones.
Oh no, here it is right there.
So if I click on that then it opens that
file and here I can see that that's file
is located in my roaming folder and a
instruction that in the file and it's
found that and it's found that
instruction file and it's incorporated it
and this has just some generic kind of.
Things that you would want to in terms of
just kind of tuning how you interact with
copilot.
This is a a way that you can do a way
that you can do that.
Do you have a recommended VS Code
extension to preview these empty files
properly or more easily?
I think it's others if we do it.
Or is it just built in?
Go to extend.
Just look search for our mark down.
Yeah,
I'm just wondering which one do you
prefer?
Well, let's see what do I have installed?
Marked.
I have marked down all in one markdown
preview enhanced.
Uh, markdown PDF conversion.
So I have looks like a quite a few
different ones. Oh no,
these are ones I don't have installed,
but we're the ones I have installed.
Um.
Yeah,
I was hoping to just right right click in
There we go.
VS code and say preview.
Yeah, that's right. That's right.
So I have a mermaid support.
If you don't know what mermaid is,
it's a diagramming language that's in
markdown.
So it allows you to very easily and
quickly create diagrams and I
particularly like it when working with AI
because.
The text and.
Yeah, I do. I do too. I like that one.
Yeah, and here's a linting.
So this will keep your markdown compliant
Yeah.
and show you errors.
I have this mark one that I I was talking
about and then this one for syntax
highlighting a colon matching.
So those are what I've been using.
So anyway, so this is the personal one.
I actually created this one by asking
Copilot to create me a personal a
personal instruction file and this is
what it came up with and so far it's been
working for me fine.
I may tear this down just to to to keep
it sane, but let me see what I have here.
Right.
All right.
So we'll get into that a little bit later
then. Um.
So that here is our preview of the
copilot instructions.
The the primary use of this file is is to
try to manage what the current what the
current model is.
So here you're looking at the AI
generated is true.
What the actual model is,
and one of the things I found I learned
when I was trying to actually create this
logging feature.
I had specified that I wanted to have the
model and it didn't understand right
exactly what I was asking for and the
more I drilled down into it.
It basically said no,
this is something that it said.
I don't have that information available
to me,
which I think is interesting is that when
you're running a prompt in Copilot right
now,
you don't know what model is actually
running it.
You know from the UI which one is running
it because that's the one you selected.
But the AI doesn't know which model is
actually being executed at the time,
which I thought was kind of interesting.
All right,
so let let me search for defaults. Can I?
Is it in here? Interesting.
Must have renamed it,
but the idea here is that it there's a a
default model that's recorded in this
file and um.
You can then by upping that you can then
specify what the default model is when
you actually create a prompt,
and then when you create a prompt that
prompt will then use that specific model
so.
Yeah.
One of the prompts that we'll talk about
in a bit is this prompt here,
which is kind of interesting in that what
it tries to do is do a conflict and
analysis detection of your instruction
files.
So it's going to look at the files in
your instruction.
And it's going to do conflict resolution.
So it's going to look at all of them
together as a whole and make sure that
there's no conflicting instructions,
that there's no inconsistencies,
no logical contradictions,
no scope and priority conflicts,
no technical incompatibilities.
No communication gaps,
duplication or redundancy,
and then this is the report or the format
for each issue.
So it will then look at those
instructions and spit out a list of
issues that it finds with those
instruction files.
And then you can go back to your
instruction files and fix them so that
they're consistent.
And the benefit of doing that is.
That you're not confusing the AI with
contradictions or inaccuracies.
So this is a nice.
Part of your your your the pre-process
before you're actually starting to do a
lot of cogeneration is to make sure that
these instruction files that you're
creating and putting into your solution
are all consistent with each other and
don't have any any issues that would
cause the AI to not know what to do.
Or have to make a decision on its own.
So,
so I think one of the key takeaways is
that these are they're all natural
language. They're all text.
It's something that the in effect,
in order for the AI to take advantage of
it,
they have to do the same thing it has to
do with your code or with any prop that
you give it. It has to tokenize it.
It has to.
into vectors that has to then add it to
your contacts window and that becomes
like part of what you it understands at
that moment in order for it to form the
work.
All right. Any questions on that?
Um.
I I probably do,
I'm just not sure how to formulate them
at the moment.
So so when going back to this AI assisted
Oh.
output instructions empty file.
So I look at the preview.
Now it looks like human readable text,
but somewhere down there there is a
section.
About the standard metadata front matter
and that one looks like looks like YAML
Right.
to me in a markdown.
Does that have any meaning that gets
Yes.
interpreted in a specific way or is that
still just free text?
So let's look at the.
Like the copilot auto-generated front
matter required for formats that support
Mm.
embedded YAML. So what is the?
What is the interpretation of that
section from an AI perspective?
That's what I'm trying to comprehend.
Um, that's.
Like if you Scroll down a little bit,
there is a it's called standard metadata
Take a look at this.
front matter.
There, stop there. OK,
so when AI gets this instruction file,
Right.
it's trying to understand what it's
supposed to do. What does it do with this?
Like how? How is that interpreted?
Is there meaning to it?
But.
It's it's really well it there's meaning
to it in the sense that it's data that
you can retrieve from reference inside of
their your instructions or inside of your
prompts.
So but it's not something that actually
causes anything to happen everything that.
Everything that happens it actually is in
the actual instructions itself and what
this is this AI assisted software develop
the preview output instructions is trying
to do is to tell the AI when you generate
an output.
I want to have this information included
in that, but it's just metadata.
It's not actually something that is,
you know, directly interpretable.
It doesn't cause anything to actually be
created, but it can be referenced.
You can you can say in a.
In an instruction,
do something or include the chat ID in
some processing in the in the file itself,
but what we're really trying to do.
OK,
so so a so AI does understand the chat ID
through the AI.
It's not just the string that's the chat
Yes, it it it.
ID, it's the actual ID of the chat,
correct?
Yeah, that's correct.
So you you it's it's it's additional data
OK.
that gets essentially put into the file
that can be can be actionable because
it's a part of the context.
OK, so it's almost like a variable. OK,
thanks.
Yes, it's almost like a almost.
It's almost like a variable.
And I I was gonna look for the, well,
the example of it here.
You can see that these are placeholders,
right?
Yeah.
So what happens is that when it generates
the standard metadata front matter,
Yeah.
when in a course of generate a file,
we tell it to create AC sharp file.
It's going to put all of this in the top
of the file, but it will replace these.
Placeholders with the actual provider,
or in this case,
what is the username of the actual person
that actually ran or created the file?
OK.
So now my next question would be
something like OK,
if there is a tag or variable or
something to replace with the real IDs
called copilot chat ID,
where can I get the complete list of such
IDs or tokens?
Is there a complete list of them?
Well, let's see. I mean, we're still here.
We can ask it.
I bet there is a complete list somewhere.
Well, I don't think it's.
There's no thing,
there's no file that contains it,
but it should be able to look at the code
base and find them.
Other questions while we're while we're
waiting.
The.
Notice that it.
So it's.
Yeah, John, I I actually,
I didn't mean to list the chat IDs.
What I was curious about is if there is
something that's called chat ID that
sounds like a variable,
how do I get a complete list of variables
that Copilot understands that I can embed
embed in these instructions MD files?
Well, the if we looked at.
Is.
On.
Um.
And and if this is like distracting,
hijacking the conversation,
please stop me. I I'm just,
I have a hard time wrapping my head
around that piece.
Well,
if you're if you're having difficulty,
then we should take a look at it. It's.
Seems weird, but I can't find it.
I'm gonna.
In in other words,
like you know you typed in chat under
score ID, why is it not chat dash ID?
Like how did you know it was an under
score ID?
Oh yeah,
so that was kind of what I was trying to
OK.
show. So if we were to look at this,
so is it use chat ID is embedded in the
front matter, right?
So it's a just a term.
Here we see the copilot chat ID is what
it's using for that.
So who?
OK,
so where is the complete list of those
IDs in those brackets?
The copilot dash chat ID?
Where did that come from?
That's what I'm headed towards.
Is that predefined in Copilot?
No, it's not. It's um,
maybe it's in the other file.
Where is it?
S.
Um.
So each chat gets a a new chat ID.
I don't think this chat ID is like
metadata that comes with the like the the
chat, right?
This is something that the LLM produces
based on these instructions.
So you could like create.
You could name it something else if you
wanted to, Peter, if that clears that up.
That's correct.
Yeah, that's what I was trying to get to.
I was looking for the place in the
instruction files that actually says how
to how to actually craft a chat ID and
it's it's based partly on the prompts
that you're you're running what it
understands about your your your
instructions.
So it's it's not magic,
it's just part of the instructions is how
to create a chat ID,
and then once you've defined that chat ID,
you can then use that chat ID to do
things like build a name of a file or or
the like.
But I I'm having difficulty right now.
No, it's fine. I mean,
we don't need to get stuck on this.
I was just curious where those are and
what they look like, but.
Yeah,
I mean as far as your your to go more
Oh.
closely to your question,
I'm not really aware of any variables
that are available to you,
but I haven't delved that deep into it.
You know,
you might be able to do some research and
find out there are you know what is
something along the lines of what is what,
what values are available.
To you when you're actually running a
prompt and it might there might be
something that you can actually take
advantage of. But in my work,
what I've been doing,
all of this is just generated as a result
of the instruction files that I've asked
the AI to create and of course.
Yes.
OK, I see.
Right. So I've basically said OK create a,
you know create a prompt that does this
and when and then it will because it has
instructions to create a chat ID and put
that in the log,
that's it goes and follows the
instructions to do that.
OK. Thanks.
So sure.
Let's see where we are.
So if you wanted to take advantage of
these things from that repo which we
showed,
you can just copy them into your
instructions folder and they will then
become a part of your context and you can
then take advantage of them.
So if you want to start logging your AI
request,
you can just take the copilot and the AI
one and put those in your instruction
files and.
Done all of a sudden,
but then start to be invoked.
Same thing's true of just about any other
instruction file that's in that repo.
So we talked about this one quite a bit.
It's that it is provenance for all the AI
assisted artifacts.
The thing about it is that this and the
reason I created it is because I wanted
to standardize this in some way and then
I added.
The features related to the the capturing
the the conversation and creating the
summary file.
And the copilot instruction one.
Reading new chat logs.
Generating a a prompt for Evergreen
software development.
So we could do something like create a
prompt file that generates an instruction
file for Evergreen software development
and then we could add in C# or something
along those lines if we wanted.
So if you go to our.
Just roll.
Oh, here one. Yeah, that was fine.
So here.
I asked it to, so let me undo these.
And we'll kind of go through this in
there.
No, this is we had it.
We asked it to do this. All right,
let me let me explain what this was.
So remember we we we ran a prompt to
create instruction files for the
technology in this project.
Now just an interesting aside of this is
that you can then say.
Create a prompt that.
Creates.
An instruction file for the technology in
a project,
and now we've created essentially a
prompt that creates an instruction file.
And the reason that you might want to do
this is that you've got more than one
project that you want to apply this to
that has different technology in it and
you saw that this prompt file.
You could then apply to multiple
different projects and it will produce a
unique set of instruction files for that
project.
And by creating a prompt file for it,
it allows you to easily share that prompt
among multiple different projects by
committing it into a different.
A repository that can be accessed from
these different projects or some other
way of sharing instruction files.
So this is what I did to create some of
the prompts that I'm showing you here was
to say OK, start off with a simple.
Like that and then turn it into a prompt
file that makes it conform to all the
standards that I've already set forth for
how a prompt file should be structured.
That way I get consistent prompt files
that have a format that's expected and
not just prompt files that contain a
single.
A single sentence in them.
So we went through this exercise and we
created all of these instruction files.
So we have.
This the WPF one here which is
referencing a WPF document.
And one I think is useful is that we go
ahead and let's keep all of these
instruction files we can then say.
Compare.
The code base.
With the instruction files.
In.
Here we can say uh file.
Well, maybe.
What I was looking for is files or
formers,
but we can just say in instruction files.
Yeah.
Can you ask a question while you're
typing?
Yes.
So let's say you generate the WPF
instruction files and then you say OK,
use the instruction file to generate AC
sharp class for this WPF object and then
you contrast that with.
Doing the same without an instruction
file?
Like what is the benefit of having an
instruction file that you haven't
actually customized like is is?
Yeah, John.
Did did that make any sense?
Yeah, it does. Um, well.
So is it like processing power?
Like is it faster to go one way or the
other way?
Is it like better in any way quality wise?
Well,
we we have you know some C# code in our
file already and some WPF files.
So what I've asked it to do is to compare
what we created yesterday without
instruction files.
With the instruction files that we've
just created today and it's going through
and reading all the instruction files.
You can see that here and now it's
reading all of the code.
It's in the project that conforms.
You can see it's it's looking at the XAML
files.
The project files,
the C files and it's going to scan that
code base for that technology usage and
compare those instructions versus the
code base and it will then put out a list
after it does the comparison.
And give us a summary of what it actually
found.
So so now imagine that you didn't have
the instruction file and you would say
something like analyze my project and
show me what's not perfect in my WPF code.
Would it give you the same answer or a
different answer?
Well,
we kind of did that at the end of the day
yesterday when we said is this code
Evergreen? And it produced a whole,
a whole list of things. You know,
it's a very simple prompt that we added.
Oh, OK, got it.
You could turn, you know,
this prompt into a prompt file because
you would might.
You might want to fine tune the
instructions.
Because, you know, right now we're doing,
we're doing these instruction files and
we're assuming that they're correct,
which may or may not be the case, but.
Yeah,
I'm just trying to figure out if it makes
1.
any sense to have an instruction file
that I do not customize. I mean,
you would create it to customize,
try to make it work for your team.
Yeah.
Right, right. So you would look at,
for example, WPF and say,
does this instruction file conform to our
expectations?
Because what it's using for the
determination was that link that it had
done at the bottom, which is.
Coming from Microsoft Learn,
if your if your standards don't coincide
well or they're different different from
what this is recommended here,
then you would definitely want to update
this instruction file with.
To match what your expectations are,
right?
So in in the sense of a workflow for,
you know,
using AI to help you write more new code
and make sure that it's compliant,
the first thing you would want to do is
to create these instruction files and
review them as a team.
And modify them as appropriate to
actually reflect what you have agreed on
as a team is what you expect.
And then once you've codified that,
you can then apply them.
And here we see it's recommended.
M.
That C# rules member ordering and naming
are fine,
but added a note about existing patterns.
Recommendations for for WPF instructions,
alignment, small improvements.
And you can do.
We did that prompt yesterday about.
Mm.
This is where I switching the CIDCD
pipeline.
So.
Yeah, so we say here.
And then say show me where the code is
not compliant.
Tell me is the code.
Evergreen and then it will just give you
a yes or a no.
And this will be something that we could
use in a pipeline to run this prompts and
if it if it says no,
upload the up upload a PR or update a PR
with the reasons why it's not Evergreen.
So trying to get to your question,
is it useful to have these instruction
files?
And I would say definitely in my
experience having them gives you better
output faster than not having them and
and having the ability to say you know.
You know, and just take this one file,
which not the not the instruction file,
but maybe program dot CS and say is this
a clean code?
It will be able to evaluate that code
against whatever you've defined as clean
code and then tell you yes or no it is or
it isn't.
And if you leave off the instructions.
It will.
Completed short verdict partial.
So um.
So yeah, I think this is.
I definitely think this is worthwhile.
The other thing is that you know you can
because this becomes part of every every
prompt where it's applicable based on
your.
Applies to because you can see that these
apply to different sets of files.
Oh, about that,
is it defined in the file what it applies
to or do you do that in?
Do you do that in the prompt?
Here.
It's in the instruction file.
Here is this applies to is essentially
says what what files does this
instruction file apply to and this one
OK.
would be only files that are are
calculator in the calculator dot tests.
And in any subfolders under that this
would WPF applies any calculator dash WPF
files. It's 'cause you can see that.
OK,
so it's basically it that looks like path
based,
is that correct assumption or are there
It is. It is. That's the correct.
That's correct. It's actually.
any other ways to specify those filters
like look through the whole structure
Um.
recursively and only pick up star dot TXT
or something like that?
Yes, yeah, yeah, that's certainly.
You can certainly do that.
You could say just look at all the update
all the read me files and specify that it
only applies to files that end end in a
dot MD extension and.
OK.
And and I might have a slide a little bit
later about you know some of the other
ways that you can you can actually
specify applies to. It's not just,
it's not just path based,
but you can do other things as well.
OK, but fundamentally,
so every prompt looks at all the
instruction files, right?
And then these within the instruction
file,
each of them determines what they applied
themselves to something like that.
That's correct because we we saw that
when we when we ran this here.
OK.
Well, I think we.
We're back. We ran another process.
I I just wanna make sure I don't have to
specify for each prompt which ones I want
at all. Sounds like it's all declarative,
OK?
No, see, it's all. It's all declared.
That's correct.
Sounds good.
So we have that instruction.
We could have modified this instruction
to say.
Show me this code Evergreen and create.
Issues.
For what you find.
And so this prompt will.
More than just report back to us,
but it'll actually go ahead and create
issues in the issue file that we could
put into our backlog that we could then
use to make sure that we address these
issues.
So here it understands that the issues
are going to go into the issue folder.
When you talk about issues,
is that an equivalent of a work item in
Yes, yes, that's correct.
And if you find it,
Azure DevOps like a bug or a task or a
PBO?
if you go and do a search for an MCP tool
for Azure DevOps that supports the
creation of work items instead of putting
them into a file like this.
It would put them directly in as work
items.
Like actually connect to Azure DevOps and
programmatically create the bugs for us.
Into.
I.
That's that's correct.
Right.
Or you could do a two step process that
creates these issue files that you see
created here and then you could say OK,
I want you to create Azure.
You could actually go and review them,
delete the ones you don't want,
update them,
change them in any way that you want and
then you say go create create work items
for these.
So see here H1 has a problem,
why it matters.
And just just to kind of elaborate on
that,
if you have a very specific template that
you want to follow for those work items,
you can specify what that template is and
then it will use that template when it
creates it so that it creates a a work
item in a way that you expect it to.
So you can see this is really powerful
for building backlogs,
identifying the code, finding issues.
And so it's done with that.
So we've got how many issues created 6/6
So.
issues.
Let's keep those.
One that I found to be kind of
interesting was say.
Review the.
Obese.
For bugs.
And create issues.
Or your findings.
What is? What is considered the bug here?
What's the?
Oh, well, we're kind of um.
What is?
What is the definition that it's gonna
use to determine that there is a bug?
All right, well,
let's save that then and say what do you
can set our bug?
So this question you just asked,
is that in the context of the project
that is open?
Um.
Well, it's scanning the code. Let's see,
it's explaining this account.
So it's looks like it's looking at these
issues as as being as bugs.
We could have these are in scope because
these files are open and things that
we've worked on recently.
It talks talks about how it prioritizes
them.
And how it categorizes them.
And in terms of a definition,
any behaviour in code or configuration
that causes the software to behave
incorrectly rather relative to its
intended specification.
So if we go back to the second prompt to
then review the code base and we can see
if it finds any defects in our code.
So other questions or maybe we should
switch this?
My wheels are turning like what is the
definition of intention here?
How does AI know the intention?
I mean, I I get the concept.
I'm just like, I don't know.
I have a question, so.
What? Sure.
So say like you have like a sort of a big
project or big repository and you have
lots and lots of instructions.
Will these take up?
Is it like possible like have so many
instructions that you start taking up
like too much of the token budget?
Or is it like?
Because like say you have this C#
Yeah.
instruction and then say your code also
has like C code and like all these other
languages.
If you're trying to work on C code,
like the C# code instructions probably
aren't really relevant.
Then does it start to hurt you by having
too many specific instructions?
Well,
if your instructions have applies to and
your prompt is saying review all the C#
code you know for for this particular
issue that you want to,
then it's going to automatically exclude
the instruction files for the ones that
don't match that.
That request,
so it's going to know that AC file has a
dot CS extension.
It will then only look at the instruction
files that apply to that and it will only
apply it to those files that it finds.
So you you have some way of some fairly
simple way of controlling that.
So if you have a huge number of C# files,
you might run into a risk there,
and in that case you could partition it
by just, you know, going folder by folder.
And saying OK these you know in this
particular project I want you to evaluate
all of the C shar files and you should be
able to whittle it down so you don't
you're not seeing issues with your
context window.
OK,
so I this is maybe more of just like a
question of how these how like the agent
works.
Like whenever you say you like ask it to
do some sort of question and then it does
like a bunch of different things like so
while it's doing all these different
things.
Will it like tokenize and then like sort
of de tokenize different files or is it
like 1 context per like I don't know
session I guess?
Well,
it it's a the the context that applies to
So.
the the currently executing prompt.
So that prompt will then load all of the
context that it understands it needs to
load in order for you to execute that
instruction.
That can come from the prompt on the that
you put directly into the chat window.
It can come from a prompt file that
specifically specifies what the what it
should be using in terms of the
instruction files,
or it can be in a chat mode that
specifies specifically what instructions
it should use.
Or you can just have it infer what
instruction files it uses based on the
applies to.
But that's a that's evaluated at the
beginning of the execution of every
prompt and that builds that context from
that.
And that context only gets cleared when
you actually specify that you want a new
new chat and then we'll start from
scratch.
Yeah.
OK.
All right, so we what did we ask it to do?
We asked it to look for bugs and.
Doesn't look like.
Yeah,
I think by that it just it it inferred
that we were only talking about this
files. That's what it seems to me. Oh no,
it says here.
Results.
It run the test and it saw that they
passed.
No,
notable warnings were produced in the
builds and tests.
This is something I also like to specify
in in instruction files some places that
you should treat warnings as errors.
Because I don't like my builds throwing
up a lot of text that I want that I have
to.
Rule out his issues.
So let me let's clear the context
completely and let's go ahead and.
I'll run this again 'cause I haven't
actually run this against code bases and
found it found issues that in the code
that hadn't been found through a test.
And then I've asked it to go and create a
test to show that those issues are are
failing the test.
Let me change the the model.
I'm still in mini and I think.
Um.
Claude Sonic might do a better job.
Yeah,
so I know it's actually looking at the
files and not just the issues.
It's found to 20 C# files.
Now it's looking to get to the XAML files.
And this is a pretty small code base,
so there's a chance that it probably
won't find anything.
Yeah, so there we go. That's good.
So it found four issues and it's gonna
create additional.
Issue files and again if this was if we
had a tool that would attach to Azure
DevOps that would that would allow us to
create Azure DevOps issues for or or bugs.
Questions on this while it's finishing up.
Here you can see the difference in the
model where the the the smaller model
just did not.
We would need more prompting to get it to
scan the whole code base and this one did
a better job.
It's just something I do when.
If the context seems to get bogged down.
In one model is to switch and recreate
the context in another model and see if
it can come up with a different approach
that might might be more suitable.
Tend to bounce back and forth between
cloud sonnet and.
GPT.
I'd like to do some experimentation about
how opinionated them are.
They are by taking a a prompt that's.
That's that's trying to give you an
opinion about different models for code
generation,
like the work we did yesterday was like
give me a recommendation on or an opinion
on what different models are good for
code generation and running that in the
different models and see if their output
is.
How much their op difference and and how
much they favor their own model.
All right, so.
Here comes the new issues.
So, so definitely, as I mentioned,
this can be a a backlog technical debt.
Generating machine.
Because it's because it can.
It definitely can find things that you
that you might overlook and.
And put things on your backlog that you
should probably address.
Notice that it's found some high priority
things so that you know things that we
want to take a a stab at at fixing,
which might be a good exercise. Go ahead.
So, so I have another question here.
So it sounds like it's finding issues
that for example sonar cube would find.
So when you compare copilot with any kind
of static analysis tools.
What is your opinion?
Does Copilot replace all of them or do we
still need static analysis on our code
base in addition to Copilot?
I haven't.
I don't have really an opinion because I
haven't tried to compare the two,
but that would be a an I think a
worthwhile experiment is to essentially
put them both in the pipeline and see.
See which one does a better job at
finding things. That might be.
You might even put two or three models in
that same pipeline to see if they find
different bugs.
You might find it that for particular
versions of of models that one of them is.
Better at finding a certain kind of an
issue than others are,
and you can even have it and have
instructions to focus on just those kinds
of issues. So, but I don't, you know,
I'd be interested in finding out how well
it does at that kind of.
Static analysis.
But I do think that it has the potential
of doing as good a job or or even a
better job because it's not just looking
at you know, Reg expression,
regex expressions or code or imperative
code based analysis. It's doing.
More of a tokenized vector based analysis
of the code and I would expect that that
in order to keep up the tools will have
to actually incorporate some AI into
their models in order for them to find
more deep rooted.
Uh, defects.
OK, we'll test that one.
But if you compare, yeah, you test,
you test it and after a couple of months
you can make a decision and if Sonar is
not working out,
you can consider changing how you
changing your pipeline.
Yeah,
I think it's a it's a viable pro project
All right. Thanks.
actually if if we can eliminate one of
the tools and move towards one called
Alright.
consolidated workflow that that would be
actually a.
Well, the project,
I'm not sure how it would score regarding
according to our priorities,
but I I would,
I would add it to the backlog something
like that.
Yeah, that's, I think that's a good idea.
I think it can,
it can apply to like security analysis.
You can say like look for security
defects in the code base and it can do a
static analysis of the code there.
So there's a a number of different ways
that you can approach this in terms of
that kind of bug detection.
All right,
so we've got a bunch of issues here.
Why don't we try to fix one of them?
We have this one here.
We look at the bugs that were found,
a recursive evaluate call causing history
pollution.
Oh, I was Speaking of recursion.
I can I've I've actually experienced
recursion in my AI prompts where I had a
a prompt whose purpose was is to make
sure all the prompts conformed.
To a prompt instruction file and if they
didn't to update the prompt and it
applied that logic to the prompt that was
initiating the the actual investigation
of the prompt files and it modified it.
Itself and it got itself into a situation
where it was constantly trying to do the
same update to the same file over and
over again and it was just looping in the
chat window giving the same output over
and over cuz I hadn't kept the
modifications that had been that were
approved.
It was kind of interesting to see that.
Hmm.
So all right, so.
A potential impact.
This is a medium priority one.
That's a low priority one.
Thread safety might be a little bit
tricky, so maybe this one issue #7.
But what I wanna do is I wanna actually
implement it in two different AI models
and then compare and contrast them.
So what we wanna do is we're on this.
CICD fix branch.
Let's let's see if we can get merge back
to main. So how about?
Commit to our.
I had the changes, yeah.
Manage with me.
So it wants us to do an ad.
Here's our commit message.
No,
it's our branches up to switch to main.
Do a git purge.
So, so John,
what you are doing here is you're
And a push.
committing a lot of changes that are
technically not tested.
So if we wanted to make sure that the
developer doesn't break any unit test
with their prompt engineering.
Would the instructions file would be the
right place to put this check in,
say before you push run all the unit
tests or something?
Or would that be somewhere else like a
pipe pipeline?
I would I would put that in.
I would I would put that into your branch
rules.
You can specify which for example you can
specify that you cannot push domain
without a PR in some in some source
control systems like GitHub.
Allows you to do that and I I'm pretty
sure Azure DevOps is the same.
Yeah, yeah.
So that way that forces you into a PR
situation where we would have to push
this into a PR and then we talked about
the implementing an AI code review that
if it found anything it would not allow
you to.
Approve the PR so.
OK,
what about any pre-commit checks that we
would want to run?
Would that be a good place for an
Mm.
instruction file or not so much?
Right. Well, I I think, well, in a sense,
once you have the instruction files in
place, it's not going to,
it's not going to produce anything that
that violates those instruction files
unless you have a context.
Issue where the instruction file got
pushed out of memory.
So the code that you create will be
compliant with those instruction files.
Um, once you once you have.
OK, sorry,
maybe I confused you with my question.
Let's say I want to do a pre-commit check
and and I want to prevent something bad
happening before the developer actually
commits.
So that should trigger some kind of an
action like run all unit tests and check
a bunch of stuff.
Is that something I can put in an
instruction file or not really?
Right.
What if you ask the instruction,
ask the copilot to do that,
it would actually do a pre-commit hook
and and wire that into the to get a
GitHub action or you know on Azure DevOps
it would provide you with the instruction
to do it because that's an appropriate
place for that.
Kind of constraint.
The instruction files are primarily
OK.
oriented at making sure that the code
that you generate because it has to run
through because there's nothing going to
stop you from sitting down and opening up
a project and writing a lot of bad code.
That's the AI is not.
The AI is not involved in that process,
Yeah, OK.
Yeah.
right?
You haven't asked it to do anything.
OK,
so basically it's so basically it's not
the right place for what I described.
No, I wouldn't say. I would say not,
but I you know.
But if you're doing code generation,
the instruction files are are a good
place to put those kinds of rules that
that you want to have enforced.
OK. Thanks.
Right.
So in a sense,
it's kind of to your benefit to to ask
the AI to do the work rather than trying
to do too much of the work yourself.
All right. Thank you.
Sure. All right,
so we're all back on main again.
So what I'll let's do a prop that says
let's what issue is this?
Function evaluation overrides and it's a
side effect. The example criteria.
Problem is more subtle.
All right,
high severity looks fairly sophisticated,
so maybe we'll get a chance at this.
I.
Yeah, well,
maybe this is maybe my problem is that it
let me.
What I'm thinking is that it's going to
find the proposed solution in both models
and therefore it's going to implement the
proposed solution in the issue file and
not try to do something in terms of its
own evaluation.
So maybe.
Um.
For #12 here, what we'll do instead.
Is capture the problem statement.
Let's remove the issue file.
So that it doesn't have a hint.
Let's clear our our our context so
there's nothing no clues there.
And we'll do the first attempt with
Claude Sonnets and say create.
A new branch.
And implement.
A6.
For this log on that branch.
I didn't realize the chat window
supported markdown.
Questions while we're just waiting for
this fix to get implemented.
All right.
So it's updating a couple of different
files, yeah.
No, just one.
Just run the test to make sure that we
haven't broken anything.
I feel sometimes like a play by play
announcer just describing what the AI is
doing.
And so looks like we got a bunch of
warnings but no errors.
And now it's gonna create a test.
The the bug is actually fixed.
So so we are fixing the same bug with two
different models.
Is that the exercise here?
That's the exercise here.
And and then it pushes.
It actually pushes them to the cloud in
on the two different branches.
Or is it all local to your laptop?
Well, it's if we do a, if we do a push,
it'll it'll push it to the to the
repository.
OK, so you didn't do a push yet.
Not yet.
Alright,
so how are you comparing the two branches
or how are we gonna know which solution
is better?
So...
So here it's getting it's actually, uh,
adding uh to the repo.
Yeah, I'll show you that in a second.
Here's our commit message.
2.
So there's our first implementation.
It's all done with that.
So let's go back to main.
New York.
There we go.
Let's clear our context again.
So now we have no in our context, no.
Remnants of the previous request,
so we can change our model now to what do
we say? How about?
Chat ABT 5.
And then run the same prompt.
Is it smart enough to pick a different
branch name?
Uh.
That's what I was gonna is gonna look at
the fixed file that was just fixed by the
other.
Well, well,
it hasn't actually looked at the repo.
It doesn't know.
Even if it knew what the branch was,
it wouldn't know necessarily what was on
that branch.
And we'll have to be explicit when we
compare about telling it which branches
to actually use.
So here it's looking for tests.
It's still formulating a gathering the
information it thinks it needs in order
to be able to.
Um.
Determine what the what the root cause is.
Oh.
No, it's.
So what are our two branch names now?
Someone is ants update after top level,
the other one is fix.
And update bug.
I know one thing to note is that.
Since we have instruction files.
It's going to do the implementation of
the bug fix using those in compliance
with those instruction files.
So now what it wants us to do is do a get
ad.
And a commit with a commit message.
It doesn't look to me like it had created
any new tests, is it?
So here's the implementing the fix code
changes. They ran the tests.
It valid,
it validated output and then it changed
the directory and ran the test and did a
commit and push so.
Cloud was obviously a little more
sophisticated in the sense that he
created a a test to ran that test and and
then verified that all those tests were
passing.
So now we're doing a a push to push the
code into the repo.
So let's just do a git branch.
to make it easy to gather the
Uh, branch names.
Oh, it's still not.
Hasn't finished its push yet.
All right.
So there's the two branches like fix ENS
update bug and and fix NS update after
top level. So we will clear our contact.
Oh wait, I need to keep first.
And then um.
Let's clear our context.
Let's change our agents to.
How about Gemini to here? Yeah.
We'll close this. I want my git branch.
Looks like I lost it.
Just to give me the list.
And then we'll say.
All right, so there's our bug.
And.
And they said there.
There are two different.
of this log on two branches.
I have these backwards.
Oh, and I need to switch. I do.
I did this this.
This top level one is yeah is GPT.
5.
Let me switch back to the main.
Compare the implementations.
And.
Report.
The pros and cons of each.
Anybody see any issues with this?
Looks fine to me.
All right,
so this will take a little while 'cause
it's gonna have to switch back and forth
between the two branches.
It's checking to see if the branches
actually exist.
It's getting a diff of what was changed.
So have you seen any fully automated
workflows yet where one model generates
the solution for a bug fix and then the
second does the PRS automatically?
Or is there a human always involved
somewhere?
Well, we've been,
we've been seeing it do the commits
automatically and and if we had asked it
to create a PR,
it would have done that automatically as
well.
But do you have AI reviewing PRS
automatically without human human
Yeah.
interaction?
Well,
that's what we were talking about
implementing.
It's something that would review a PR
Yeah.
automatically when you create the PR and
if it finds issues,
not allow the PR to be approved.
It would add a comment to the PR and then
set it set the comment has has having to
be resolved before you can actually
approve it.
So if if it found no issues,
we could just have it approve the PR
So did you do it?
automatically.
Yeah, if it's on no issues, yeah,
you could do it. You could approve the PR.
But yeah, that's a little tricky,
you know,
'cause you know you're having code
generate AI generated,
having AI review it, you know?
Yeah, I know.
That's why I asked the question.
I'm wondering if you have seen any
implementations of this yet where
I haven't.
somebody decided to do it and it's
effective and it works.
Well, that's not. I haven't seen it.
I haven't heard it reported that people
are doing it, but I'm sure that they are.
You could,
you could go so far as to have two
different models review it and if they
both agree that it's.
Good. Then then approve it.
Then you get at least some sense that two
AI's, two eyes,
two pairs of eyes have looked at it and
and considered to be a a a good choice
and then let the code review go forward.
Or look at it at the PR, but um.
And you know that and and to a certain
extent that's done automatically in
GitHub is that you know they have a
dependabot which will look for dependency
updates and automatically create PRS for
those,
but they don't automatically well they.
They you can set it to automatically
approve the PRS and put it into the code
base.
And you can have farther unit checks
farther down the pipeline too.
OK.
This is us at the PR level.
You can then you know it has to in
addition to that now have to run all your
tests,
your integration tests and everything
else for it to actually reach production.
And if you've got a a a sound test suite
that you have high confidence in that all
of your main.
Use cases are all passing,
your risk is going way down and then if
you have feature flags in place that
actually will hide that feature until
you've actually tested in production and
it's working.
You you can, you know,
feel safe that you can deploy that at
anytime you want.
OK. Thanks.
Yeah,
so it might be a little bit of
philosophical discussion,
but let's not forget that we operate in a
regulated industry.
And so to apply maybe my lenses or my
contacts is would I like my significant
other undergo invasion?
Piece of surgery with software generated
like this and I think today my answer is
no.
I would concur with that.
I would feel comfortable with that as
well. I think it's imperative,
as we talked about yesterday,
that we keep a human in the loop to
review the code before it goes in.
Right.
What I think the A I can do though,
it can find the problems first.
Right. So by the time it gets to you,
all of the things that we've described in
That's right.
the instruction files are all compliant.
All the things that we do in a pre-commit
evaluation are all compliant.
Then a human can look at the PR and say,
all right, so I I've looked at it.
I know that these other things have
checked out.
Let me focus on the things that it's not
checking that I need to to look at.
So.
You know that might you know there's this,
there's this concept about AI software
engineers,
which is not a AI that's a software
engineer that's creating AI,
but a software engineer which is an A I.
Which can take on.
You can assign it a work item and it will
take that work item all the way through
the determining of what the issue is to
creating a plan to address the issue,
implementing the plan,
testing the results.
Creating a PR and then pushing that PR.
You know it's feasible at some point that
if you get other AIS to review that and
and really focus those AIS with the
instructions that are specifically
targeted to the things that it's supposed
to be looking for,
which is completely out of the scope of
what you actually used to try to to
create it.
And that would, I think,
go a long way to making sure that you
feel comfortable with it. And if you,
you know, The thing is that you,
you worry about just one thing slipping
through the cracks and there's nothing in
the pipeline that's going to catch it.
And that's the that's where you really
have to have strong confidence in your
pipeline.
Makes sense.
Alright, when it is fine.
So.
So he so that is it didn't actually take
too long.
It's it looked at compare the bug fixes.
So it approved the creation of a branch
by the get get branch rule.
So it did a lot of this on its own.
It gets the diff for each branch.
Right,
so here it's getting it from each each
different branch,
does a comparison between the two
implementations fixing the AI bug,
and so the core issue was being updated
during the evaluation of the Nexus
expressions.
And the desire behaviour is that it
updated only once after the entire
questions were calculated.
The bent the cloud solder approach.
This implementation introduced a new
private method evaluate internal to
handle the raw calculation.
While the public evaluate orchestrates
the process and manages state a new
private method.
The public static decimal evaluate method
is modified and the the recursion call
within the process function is changed
from evaluate enter to evaluate the
internal of the expression.
A clear separation of concerns,
explicit and readable.
A single point of mutation cons code
duplication and introduce a new method
that largely duplicates the code of the
original evaluate message.
While the logic is separated,
the code is very similar.
Then it takes a look at the ChatGPT 5
approach.
The implementation modifies the existing
evaluate method by adding a boolean flag
to control whether the update state is
updated.
Right,
the evaluate method is overloaded a new
private method.
It's created the logic for the updating
that last result and the history method
is wrapped in a if statement.
The public static decimal evaluate method
is now simply calls the private overload
method.
And the recursive call is changed to A to
call the private overload method with the
flag set to false.
Rows less code duplication,
consolidated logic cons.
Boolean flags can be unclear control
coupling.
The caller is now responsible for
dictating the internal behaviour of the
evaluate method.
And there's mental overhead in terms of
adding complexity to the evaluate method
itself.
Now every new one reading it has to track
the state of the update memory and
history flag to understand the code flow.
What is its recommendations?
Both branches correctly fixed the bug.
However,
the cloud side approach is preferable
from a software design perspective.
It introduces some code duplication.
It results in a cleaner, more readable,
more maintainable solution,
and the separation of concerns is
explicit.
So.
So here you could then say, OK,
I like that branch and then you could
merge that branch back into main.
So what do you think of that?
It's nice.
Cool. Any other comments on it?
I think it's pretty neat.
So if you say you had like 2 models that
each like produce two different solutions
and you ask one of the models to like.
Judge them between each other.
Would it like always judge its always
like say that its own solution was the
best, do you think?
It's like for here,
like Cloud Sonic would, uh,
Well, we could.
I guess we could try it too.
So you can try it right now.
We could say I'll I'll use Cloud Sonnets
to do the evaluation right and then just.
But we'll try the the one that that had
the worst approach.
Yeah, that's a good idea.
Let's change that to Chat GTB 5 and let's
clear our context so it doesn't know
anything about the previous evaluation
and let's go ahead and have it go and run
that.
Analysis.
Yeah, I did.
I find I'd do more of this kind of model
by model comparison and this could be
something that you can work into a chat
mode where you give it a prompt and it
would go through the whole workflow of
doing the two implementations,
doing the comparison and.
The result and then you just you then you
can review the branch that it preferred
and.
And and review that code, right?
And then prove that code when you.
Notice it's constantly having to change
directories.
It's getting better about that.
In terms of remembering to actually
approve auto approve those things.
Here it's pulling them down and doing a
def of them.
Same same as what the other model did.
And now let's do the analysis.
And it's possible that.
The the Gemini model.
Had some bias as well that would favor
one model or the other.
Yeah.
So he gave us a depends, I think.
Optional refinement suggested for the
ChatGPT approach tradeoff summarize.
It wants to. It wants to use ChatGPT.
That's pretty funny.
But um.
It wants to.
It wants to improve it by keeping the
single private overload,
but change the flag to enum and keep the
named arguments at call sites.
Says that it would improve the
readability.
Yeah, I I mean, I don't wanna,
I don't think it's worth running through
this,
but it is sort of interesting that it
it's like its own.
I wonder if at the beginning of this
prompt you told it which one it was from
chat cheap, I guess.
Oh yeah, I I did because you know,
we could,
we could run it again without the without
the prompt telling it which model was
Yeah, it's some sort of ego.
But also I think before you were saying
which.
that it sort of seems like the agent
doesn't even know which model it uses,
but I know that sometimes they don't,
they don't tell the the truth, so.
OK.
That.
Right, right, right. Yeah. And
Yeah, I don't know. Just this interesting.
Well, it, you know, it could be,
it could be a bias that's built into the
model itself in terms of the how the
different coding examples that it was
trained on were weighted.
It would would cause it to prefer the
kinds of implementations that it creates,
right?
Yeah.
So,
so using a a third party to do the
evaluation will help eliminate those
biases,
but you're still stuck with the biases of
the of that model if if that model was.
You know, so now, so now you can compare,
you know the evaluations of different
using different models to evaluate it
like like we did,
but use different third party ones and
see which one, which one,
which what it likes and what it doesn't
like and then you could.
See which one it more closely aligns to
your preferences,
so it where its biases align better with
your biases and and your preferences,
and then use that to do all your
evaluations. So you might use.
A model like Claude because it has a
larger context window to do more complex
tasks.
But this this code comparison is only
comparing two small snippets of code as
opposed to the whole code,
the whole code base.
All right,
let's go jump back to the slides real
quick, because I think we're just about.
At a time, is that correct?
Um.
Alright,
so we talked about Evergreen for software
development and creating creating prompt
files that will create an instruction
files for Evergreen software development.
So here was a prompt to create a
Evergreen instruction prompt to actually.
Create a prompt that creates a prompt or
creates an instruction file that can be
used and meta prompts.
So I have a couple examples of those.
It's a bit odd.
Which one is those? And here,
here they are under meta.
I've got a couple of them that I've
created and there's there's an
interesting use case for these. I mean,
typically when you create a prompt,
there's a whole bunch of prompts here
that we can discuss.
Um.
When we create a prompt,
we can just create a prompt file.
That should be enough.
We can modify the prompt file if our
needs change.
But what I found when I was creating
these prompts that they all start off
with a simple prompt like what we're
talking about here,
a relatively simple prompt.
And I want to then I have this urge to
say,
well if this is a prompt and I want to
may want to run it again,
then I want to create a prompt file out
of it. So I would take.
Well, that this number is that.
Think it's in the other.
Project.
Let me give a look at our history.
Uh,
I don't think we've used this to create a
prompt yet.
So why don't we do?
Why don't we do that with our?
Um.
Or this one you can take this and say
create a prompt.
File or um.
That creates.
Well, first of all,
let's just create the instruction file
that creates the.
An instruction file.
That.
Reviews the code base for bugs and
creates issues.
Alright,
so now it's going to go ahead and
actually create a file and it should go
into our props folder.
And then we can use that prompt to create
this instruction file anytime that we
want.
And the the the benefit of that is that
we can run this prompt in a project and
it will.
Use our instructions for that,
but it also include anything else in in
its context that would cause us to want
to update the prompt file.
So one of the things that's interesting
is that the instruction files are kind of
static.
What you can do is you can actually apply
a prompt and says.
Take a look at this instruction file and
make suggestions for improving it based
on the latest best practices or something
along those lines,
and it will then suggest modifications to
your instruction files that will then in
turn you can apply to your code and see
where in your code no longer complies
with your instruction files and you need
to.
Then create backlog items to upgrade your
code to keep it more Evergreen.
So do we have a new file yet? Yeah,
it looks like here.
Here is a prompt that will create an
instruction file.
And in the meta case.
I I felt like OK,
this prompt that I have here could also
be a a a prompt file because I may want
to update the prompt file itself to
include new instructions or include new
things that I've from other places that
I've I've.
Learned that it should be incorporated
into the prompts.
So here this this contains a detailed
instructions on how to create that prompt
that instruction file.
All right, in the time we have lane left,
let's I'm just going to go over a few of
these prompts that I've created.
The test gap and Dallas one is is looking
at the current code base.
What tests are needed and are missing?
So this will do an evaluation of the code
base and determine where in the code base
you could use some additional tasks,
do a security audit,
looking at the code base,
what are the security concerns and create
get up issues for your findings.
Do a refactor analysis looking at the
current code base.
So what what what could you use?
What code could you use refactoring?
So and you can see you know what the
inputs are,
what what are the the kinds of things
that it's looking for when determining
the.
What should be refactored? Here's um.
Analyze the files in the instructions.
This is the one I was talking about
before.
Folder report where they are no longer
represent best practices and create
GitHub issues for instruction file
updates. This is a very simple one.
It says.
Basically to in terms of analyzing the
the, the tools are installed.
This is the generate instructions prompt.
It actually produces a.
An instruction file that will guide.
That will that that will guide the the
creation of instruction files and there's
a corresponding one for generating
prompts.
This one we'll talk about tomorrow.
I like. I like this one.
Look at the code base and create a GitHub
issues for any any code dead code that
you find.
Create prompts instructions.
This will create the prompt instruction
file that will be up in the prompts.
Here is the prompt instruction file.
This one will look for deviations between
the instruction files.
I think I talked about that.
Here's the one and the one that I talked
about.
I thought is that once you've got all
your instruction files as you add them,
you can then do a quality check on your
instruction files and have the AI
actually look at them and.
And suggest modifications or places where
they can be improved.
And that's what I've done with many of
these instruction files that I've
generated is run it through this check
context prompts and.
And use it to actually improve the
quality of the instructions. All right.
So that's it for today.
Tomorrow I'm going to talk about how to
do a Greenfield development.
And when you're doing Greenfield
development, we need to tell.
The AI what to build and how to build it.
So we're going to talk about some
instruction files and some other files
related to defining requirements that
will be used.
We can use actually to guide the
implementation of a Greenfield
application.
All right, I'll see you in the morning.
Thank you, John. Have a good one.
Thank you all. Bye, bye.
Thank you. Thank you. Bye.
Thank you.
Goodbye.